content/posts/2010-10-13-more-working-music-zoe-keating.md, before:

---
author: Anthony Scotti
date: 2010-10-13T00:00:00Z
email: anthony.m.scotti@gmail.com
tags:
- Amazon MP3
- Music
- Personal
title: More Working Music - Zoë Keating
url: /2010/10/13/more-working-music-zoe-keating/
---

[Zoë Keating](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zo%C3%AB_Keating) is an cellist, I would say along the lines of Apocalyptica but more classical, softer and easier to listen to when trying to work. I find her music very soothing and it lets me clear my mind to work out problems.

I stumbled on her music from someone's Twitter posting, after listening to a video _Wired_ made of her playing I went looking on Amazon MP3 to see what I could find. Right now there is only 2 albums on Amazon MP3 and iTunes, but going to her website [http://music.zoekeating.com](http://music.zoekeating.com), you can find all of them for sale in any format you would want.

Here is the video I saw from _Wired_ for Zoë Keating playing "Escape Artist"

{{< youtube yYrcXX4nWOA >}}

I hope you will enjoy this artist, also if you have any recommendations for other music that you find great to listen to at work feel free to comment below!

Commit message:

Switch to Pelican and setup new theme (#24)
* Switch to Pelican and setup new theme

* Updates from PR review

* Updates from PR review again

* Fix issue with Twitter embeds

content/posts/2010-10-13-more-working-music-zoe-keating.md, after:

Title: More Working Music - Zoë Keating
Date: 2010-10-13 00:00
Slug: 2010/10/13/more-working-music-zoe-keating
Save_as: 2010/10/13/more-working-music-zoe-keating/index.html
URL: 2010/10/13/more-working-music-zoe-keating/
Tags: Amazon MP3, Music, Personal
Summary: A music recommendation for cellist Zoë Keating, whose soothing classical compositions are ideal for focus while working. Discovered through a Wired video, with albums available directly from her website in multiple formats and samples on Amazon MP3 and iTunes.

[Zoë Keating](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zo%C3%AB_Keating) is an cellist, I would say along the lines of Apocalyptica but more classical, softer and easier to listen to when trying to work. I find her music very soothing and it lets me clear my mind to work out problems.

I stumbled on her music from someone's Twitter posting, after listening to a video _Wired_ made of her playing I went looking on Amazon MP3 to see what I could find. Right now there is only 2 albums on Amazon MP3 and iTunes, but going to her website [http://music.zoekeating.com](http://music.zoekeating.com), you can find all of them for sale in any format you would want.

Here is the video I saw from _Wired_ for Zoë Keating playing "Escape Artist"

{% youtube yYrcXX4nWOA %}

I hope you will enjoy this artist, also if you have any recommendations for other music that you find great to listen to at work feel free to comment below!
