content/posts/2010-10-14-books-to-read-on-my-flight.md, before:

---
author: Anthony Scotti
date: 2010-10-14T00:00:00Z
email: anthony.m.scotti@gmail.com
tags:
- Books
- Grails
- Groovy
- Personal
title: Books to read on my flight
url: /2010/10/14/books-to-read-on-my-flight/
---

So looking over the times for my flight it seems that it takes about 22 hours to get to New Zealand from Boston and about the same to get back from Australia. 22 hours is a long time to be in one place....Well, not really one place, but sitting.

So thanks to the great site, [http://www.thriftebook.com](http://www.thriftebook.com/) I been loading up on ebooks to read on the trip. The 2 books I'm really looking forward to reading are [Groovy in Action](http://www.manning.com/koenig) and [Grails in Action](http://www.manning.com/gsmith/) both from [Manning Publications Co.](http://www.manning.com/) I'm hoping I can get through both of them before getting back as I would like to be able to show some people at work the power and ease of using Grails for web application development.


[![Groovy in Action](https://www.manning.com/koenig/koenig_cover150.jpg)](http://www.manning.com/koenig/)
[![Grails in Action](https://www.manning.com/gsmith/gsmith_cover150.jpg)](http://www.manning.com/gsmith/)

If anyone knows of other great Groovy, Grails or web application development books, please comment and let me know!

Commit message:

Switch to Pelican and setup new theme (#24)
* Switch to Pelican and setup new theme

* Updates from PR review

* Updates from PR review again

* Fix issue with Twitter embeds

content/posts/2010-10-14-books-to-read-on-my-flight.md, after:

Title: Books to read on my flight
Date: 2010-10-14 00:00
Slug: 2010/10/14/books-to-read-on-my-flight
Save_as: 2010/10/14/books-to-read-on-my-flight/index.html
URL: 2010/10/14/books-to-read-on-my-flight/
Tags: Books, Grails, Groovy, Personal
Summary: Preparing for a 22-hour flight to New Zealand and Australia by loading up on ebooks from ThriftEBooks. Focusing on Manning Publications' "Groovy in Action" and "Grails in Action" to gain expertise for demonstrating rapid web application development with Grails at work.

So looking over the times for my flight it seems that it takes about 22 hours to get to New Zealand from Boston and about the same to get back from Australia. 22 hours is a long time to be in one place....Well, not really one place, but sitting.

So thanks to the great site, [http://www.thriftebook.com](http://www.thriftebook.com/) I been loading up on ebooks to read on the trip. The 2 books I'm really looking forward to reading are [Groovy in Action](http://www.manning.com/koenig) and [Grails in Action](http://www.manning.com/gsmith/) both from [Manning Publications Co.](http://www.manning.com/) I'm hoping I can get through both of them before getting back as I would like to be able to show some people at work the power and ease of using Grails for web application development.


[![Groovy in Action](https://www.manning.com/koenig/koenig_cover150.jpg)](http://www.manning.com/koenig/)
[![Grails in Action](https://www.manning.com/gsmith/gsmith_cover150.jpg)](http://www.manning.com/gsmith/)

If anyone knows of other great Groovy, Grails or web application development books, please comment and let me know!
