content/posts/2010-05-28-setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd.md, before:

---
author: Anthony Scotti
date: 2010-05-28T00:00:00Z
email: anthony.m.scotti@gmail.com
tags:
- FreeBSD
- Howto
- SFTP
- SSH
title: Setting up a SFTP Only user on FreeBSD
url: /2010/05/28/setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd/
---

Sometimes it's nice to be able to share files with other people. There are many sites online where you are able to do this but you are limited by size, type of file, or lacking in security. [SFTP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_file_transfer_protocol) gives you the ablity to transfer from your server securely. Users that have SSH access can start using SFTP right away with applications like [WinSCP](http://winscp.net/eng/index.php). You don't want to give people full access to your system, so this is where SFTP only users come in to play. This will keep them from logging in and running commands and playing around with files they shouldn't.

Make a new group for the sftp only users to be added to.

```
# pw groupadd sftponly
```

Edit the sshd_config file.

```
# vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

and add

```
Match Group sftponly
ChrootDirectory /usr/home/%u
X11Forwarding no
AllowTcpForwarding no
ForceCommand internal-sftp
```

Please note that the chroot folder needs to be owned by root for the user/group to be able to log in.

Add a new user to the system and set the login group to sftponly.

```
# adduser
```

I believe this will also work on OpenBSD but I'm not fully sure on that.

Open for questions, comments, or any way to improve this!

Commit message:

Switch to Pelican and setup new theme (#24)
* Switch to Pelican and setup new theme

* Updates from PR review

* Updates from PR review again

* Fix issue with Twitter embeds

content/posts/2010-05-28-setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd.md, after:

Title: Setting up a SFTP Only user on FreeBSD
Date: 2010-05-28 00:00
Slug: 2010/05/28/setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd
Save_as: 2010/05/28/setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd/index.html
URL: 2010/05/28/setting-up-a-sftp-only-user-on-freebsd/
Tags: FreeBSD, Howto, SFTP, SSH
Summary: A guide for creating SFTP-only users on FreeBSD that can transfer files securely but cannot log in via SSH to run commands. Covers creating a dedicated group, configuring sshd_config with chroot and ForceCommand settings, and adding restricted users.

Sometimes it's nice to be able to share files with other people. There are many sites online where you are able to do this but you are limited by size, type of file, or lacking in security. [SFTP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_file_transfer_protocol) gives you the ablity to transfer from your server securely. Users that have SSH access can start using SFTP right away with applications like [WinSCP](http://winscp.net/eng/index.php). You don't want to give people full access to your system, so this is where SFTP only users come in to play. This will keep them from logging in and running commands and playing around with files they shouldn't.

Make a new group for the sftp only users to be added to.

```
# pw groupadd sftponly
```

Edit the sshd_config file.

```
# vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

and add

```
Match Group sftponly
ChrootDirectory /usr/home/%u
X11Forwarding no
AllowTcpForwarding no
ForceCommand internal-sftp
```

Please note that the chroot folder needs to be owned by root for the user/group to be able to log in.

Add a new user to the system and set the login group to sftponly.

```
# adduser
```

I believe this will also work on OpenBSD but I'm not fully sure on that.

Open for questions, comments, or any way to improve this!
