content/posts/2011-07-07-tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video.md, before:

---
author: Anthony Scotti
date: 2011-07-07T00:00:00Z
email: anthony.m.scotti@gmail.com
tags:
- nodeJS
- OReilly
- Opinion
- Personal
title: Tom Hughes-Croucher's on Node.js Video
url: /2011/07/07/tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video/
---

One of the things I forgot to talk about in my "[A look in to nodeJS]({{< relref "2011-06-29-a-look-in-to-nodejs.md" >}})" posting was what originally got me looking at nodejs. I had been seeing nodejs pop up here and there and I kind of wanted to learn more about it, but it wasn't really on the top of my list. I always check www.thriftebook.com to see if there are any new deals for ebooks. Sometimes, O'Reilly has deals that you can get videos too. I picked up the [Tom Hughes-Croucher on Node](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920017080), I want to say after 1/3 of the way of watching the videos I had nodejs installed and was messing around with my own stuff. The videos are really great.

Out of the 3 video series I got from O'Reilly this has been my favorite and really gotten me pumped up about nodejs. I think Tom did a great job of showing off nodejs and his own passion for it. It's that type of person that gets me looking into new technology that I may have overlooked. I would highly recommend this video to anyone looking to get started with nodejs or anyone who just wants to know more about the ideas behind nodejs.

If you want kind of a preview of what the videos are like check out [GTUG - Node.js special](http://vimeo.com/25069201).

{{< vimeo 25069201 >}}

Got anymore great nodejs resources that you want to share? Know something else I should look in to? Feel free to write a comment.

Commit message:

Switch to Pelican and setup new theme (#24)
* Switch to Pelican and setup new theme

* Updates from PR review

* Updates from PR review again

* Fix issue with Twitter embeds

content/posts/2011-07-07-tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video.md, after:

Title: Tom Hughes-Croucher's on Node.js Video
Date: 2011-07-07 00:00
Slug: 2011/07/07/tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video
Save_as: 2011/07/07/tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video/index.html
URL: 2011/07/07/tom-hughes-crouchers-on-node-js-video/
Tags: nodeJS, OReilly, Opinion, Personal
Summary: A review of Tom Hughes-Croucher's O'Reilly video series on Node.js, which provided excellent introduction and inspiration leading to installing NodeJS and experimenting with projects immediately. Strongly recommended for anyone getting started or wanting to understand the concepts behind Node.js.

One of the things I forgot to talk about in my "[A look in to nodeJS](/2011/06/29/a-look-in-to-nodejs/)" posting was what originally got me looking at nodejs. I had been seeing nodejs pop up here and there and I kind of wanted to learn more about it, but it wasn't really on the top of my list. I always check www.thriftebook.com to see if there are any new deals for ebooks. Sometimes, O'Reilly has deals that you can get videos too. I picked up the [Tom Hughes-Croucher on Node](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920017080), I want to say after 1/3 of the way of watching the videos I had nodejs installed and was messing around with my own stuff. The videos are really great.

Out of the 3 video series I got from O'Reilly this has been my favorite and really gotten me pumped up about nodejs. I think Tom did a great job of showing off nodejs and his own passion for it. It's that type of person that gets me looking into new technology that I may have overlooked. I would highly recommend this video to anyone looking to get started with nodejs or anyone who just wants to know more about the ideas behind nodejs.

If you want kind of a preview of what the videos are like check out [GTUG - Node.js special](http://vimeo.com/25069201).

<div class="video-embed">
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/25069201" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Got anymore great nodejs resources that you want to share? Know something else I should look in to? Feel free to write a comment.
