content/posts/2011-07-08-team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play.md, before:

---
author: Anthony Scotti
date: 2011-07-08T00:00:00Z
email: anthony.m.scotti@gmail.com
tags:
- Game
- Opinion
- Personal
- Steam
- Team Fortress
title: Team Fortress 2 is now free to play
url: /2011/07/08/team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play/
---

I really don't like writing about games because I don't play that many of them.  When a game comes along that is good AND free, it makes it very easy to get into.  Recently Team Fortress 2 has become free to play through Steam.  This is a first person shooter (FPS) in the play style of Unreal Tournament and Wolfenstein Enemy Territory but with a very cartoony feeling to it. For me, this feature makes the game more enjoyable than just playing UT or W:ET.  The game is built upon the Half-Life 2 engine, similar to Portal 2 and offers a wide range of classes to play that lets you switch your role and play style as you go.

![Team Fortress 2](https://wiki.teamfortress.com/w/images/4/48/2fort_hdr_03.jpg)

After being a long time World of Warcraft player, I really enjoy that this is a game you can put down at anytime. Got some free time and want to play?  This game lets you come and go as you please online or offline. If you enjoy UT type games and don't want to pay anything, then I say this game is for you! :)

So far my favorite class to play, the [Heavy](http://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Heavy). It's the tank part of myself from all the RPGs I have played.

For more info, check out [http://www.teamfortress.com/freetoplay/faq.php](http://www.teamfortress.com/freetoplay/faq.php)

Commit message:

Switch to Pelican and setup new theme (#24)
* Switch to Pelican and setup new theme

* Updates from PR review

* Updates from PR review again

* Fix issue with Twitter embeds

content/posts/2011-07-08-team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play.md, after:

Title: Team Fortress 2 is now free to play
Date: 2011-07-08 00:00
Slug: 2011/07/08/team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play
Save_as: 2011/07/08/team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play/index.html
URL: 2011/07/08/team-fortress-2-is-now-free-to-play/
Tags: Game, Opinion, Personal, Steam, Team Fortress
Summary: A brief personal review of Team Fortress 2, a free-to-play cartoon-styled first-person shooter on Steam built on the Half-Life 2 engine. Noted for its variety of classes allowing role and playstyle flexibility, ability to drop in and out freely, and preference for the Heavy class.

I really don't like writing about games because I don't play that many of them. When a game comes along that is good AND free, it makes it very easy to get into. Recently Team Fortress 2 has become free to play through Steam. This is a first person shooter (FPS) in the play style of Unreal Tournament and Wolfenstein Enemy Territory but with a very cartoony feeling to it. For me, this feature makes the game more enjoyable than just playing UT or W:ET. The game is built upon the Half-Life 2 engine, similar to Portal 2 and offers a wide range of classes to play that lets you switch your role and play style as you go.

![Team Fortress 2](https://wiki.teamfortress.com/w/images/4/48/2fort_hdr_03.jpg)

After being a long time World of Warcraft player, I really enjoy that this is a game you can put down at anytime. Got some free time and want to play?  This game lets you come and go as you please online or offline. If you enjoy UT type games and don't want to pay anything, then I say this game is for you! :)

So far my favorite class to play, the [Heavy](http://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Heavy). It's the tank part of myself from all the RPGs I have played.

For more info, check out [http://www.teamfortress.com/freetoplay/faq.php](http://www.teamfortress.com/freetoplay/faq.php)
